---
layout: post
title: Becoming a Program Manager
date: 2011-06-01 00:00
comments: true
categories: []
---
<p>I started my third week at <a href="http://www.microsoft.com/en-us/default.aspx" target="_blank">Microsoft</a> today, well, yesterday if you&rsquo;re counting. Yes, I did have to go in to work for a few hours yesterday. Since I last updated, I started working on my project and my manager and my mentor helped me develop some deadlines for the first half of the summer. My project is on a direct path to the next release of <a href="http://lync.microsoft.com/en-us/Pages/default.aspx" target="_blank">Microsoft Lync</a> and has a lot of stakeholders that are already awaiting a finished product, something that will take me several more weeks at best. The last week has been very fast-paced and intense and, honestly, I&rsquo;m a little surprised I came out of that unscathed. I&rsquo;ve been frantically working to get up to speed on my assignment and our team&rsquo;s policies and procedures. My first deadline was today, when I had the first review of my specification. I&rsquo;ve been to countless meetings, met with several people from all over the world, and scoured the corporate network for documentation in order to get my specification to it&rsquo;s &ldquo;first review&rdquo; stage today.</p>

<p>Like I said, today was my first specification review. Per team policy, I had to send my meeting invitation to over 450 people, although I only had about 16 attendees. The reasoning for this is that it allows everyone on the team to decide which meetings they need to go to, based on their respective project assignments. My specification was around 12 pages today and I needed to update my team, my team leads, my partners, and my dependencies on the status of my project. So I booked a conference room and setup the online meeting so that my partners across the country and the globe could attend using Microsoft Lync, of course. Although as much as I stressed out and prepared for this meeting, it went fine. My mentor, my manager, and a few of my team members congratulated me on my first accomplishment as a <a href="http://www.stcwvc.org/galley/0209/b01prog_management.htm" target="_blank">Program Manager</a>. Today I earned my &ldquo;official&rdquo; title here at Microsoft.</p>

<p>One thing that I really admire about Microsoft, not that this hasn&rsquo;t been my experience in the past, is I&rsquo;ve been assigned real-world work with a real team doing work that has a direct pathway to the next release of our product. Being able to learn quickly is something that, even though I think I am pretty good at, has been somewhat of a challenge for me. People in my group meet with me throughout the day to discuss topics that relate to my project, using terminology that I only have a high-level understanding of, and it requires a lot of question asking, research, note-taking, and intuition. This suits me perfectly. I like having a project that challenges me, a project that I have a genuine interest in, and above all else I like having a real project.</p>

<p>Last Friday, Microsoft took some of the interns to the <a href="http://seattle.mariners.mlb.com/index.jsp?c_id=sea" target="_blank">Seattle Mariners</a> baseball game. They booked three buses for us after work and we had great seats for the game on a beautiful Friday night. On Sunday, my friend and I went to check out the <a href="http://www.proclub.com/" target="_blank">Pro Club Bellevue</a> that Microsoft includes as part of our internship, the same place that <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Steve_Ballmer" target="_blank">Steve Ballmer</a> plays basketball on Monday mornings, or so I&rsquo;ve heard. It is an absolutely beautiful health club that feels more like a country club than a gym. We shot some hoops, went swimming, spent some time on the elliptical, stair-climber, treadmill, and other unique exercise machines. Then we had some fun playing racquetball for a while. On Sunday, my friends and I went to downtown Seattle for dinner and some sights. Later that night we went back to a friend&rsquo;s apartment in Redmond for some Xbox and some other extracurricular activities.</p>

<p>I&rsquo;ve got a lot going on this week and, with June just a few hours away, I have a lot of work to do next month as well. My girlfriend comes to visit me next week and shortly after that, my family comes to visit, followed by my only trip home this summer, and then just a few more weeks left of my internship after that. It&rsquo;s hard to believe that two weeks have already gone by, I have lot more work I need to get done!</p>
